.TH UPDATE-LOCATION "1" "May 2015" "Distro Astro Location" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
update-location \- update the system location
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B update-location
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fILAT,LONG\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Update the system location from IP or GPS. It will use GPS if a stream of NMEA
strings are detected from either a serial, USB, or RFComm port. It will use IP
if an Internet connection is found and a GPS is not detected. This program also
accepts user\-supplied LAT,LONG coordinates from the command line.
.PP
After finding the latitude and longitude, a reverse geocoding is performed to
lookup the place name, elevation, and time zone. The results are then saved to
\fI/etc/location\fP, allowing it to be used by any 3rd\-party application.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
force a location update, even if IP address has not
changed or location has user\-defined values
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ip\fR
update by IP even if a GPS is detected on a serial port
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-gps\fR
update by GPS even if an Internet connection is detected
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reload\fR
reload information from \fI/etc/location\fP after manually
editing the file
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
don't display any output
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose mode
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
display this help and exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
output version information and exit
.PP
If no option is used, it will first try to use GPS, and if none is detected, it
will use IP.
.PP
It is possible to manually enter the coordinates like so:
.IP
update\-location xx.xxxxxx,yyy.yyyyyy
.PP
where xx.xxxxxx represents the latitude and yyy.yyyyyy represents the longitude.
.PP
Directly supplying LAT,LONG coordinates this way may cause issues if at least
one of the coordinates is negative because the program may read it as an OPTION
switch. Therefore it is recommended to use two dashes first, to indicate that
anything after them is not an OPTION. The syntax is like this:
.IP
update\-location \fB\-\-\fR [\-]xx.xxxxxx,[\-]yyy.yyyyyy
.PP
where xx.xxxxxx represents the latitude, yyy.yyyyyy represents the longitude,
and [\-] represents a possible negative sign.
.PP
In  the past, it was not recommended to edit \fI/etc/location\fP directly for
the following reasons:
.PP
1. it will not affect other files written by update\-location, and may therefore cause inconsistency in data.
.PP
2. update\-location overwrites \fI/etc/location\fP when a new location is detected (usually when your IP address changes), resulting in the loss of your manual edits.
.PP
It is now possible to edit \fI/etc/location\fP directly. To edit it manually, do the following steps:
.TP
1. Make changes to the data as desired.
.TP
2. Change the SOURCE line to read SOURCE=USER.
.TP
3. Run the following command:
.IP
update\-location \fB\-\-reload\fR
.PP
The changes you made are now recognized as the system location and will not be automatically overwritten.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Bamm Gabriana.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report update\-location bugs to Bamm Gabriana <bamm@distroastro.org>
.br
Distro Astro home page: <http://www.distroastro.org/>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014\-2015 Bamm Gabriana.
License GPLv2+: GPL version 2 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl\-2.0.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
